So now we are going to then start
working with our application,
the coffee masters application.
And for that, we're going to start
working with the main.dart file.
So I will just hide the Explorer, so
I have more space to see what's going on.
This is a default template.
And to be honest,
you can see it has a lot of comments,
more than the ones that we typically want.
So we can get rid of these
comments at this point,
just to clear a little bit
what we see on the screen.
Of course,
it's a good idea to read those comments
later to understand what's going on.
But I need to just simplify
what we have here, so
I'm going to delete everything we have.
In fact, I'm also going to
delete here from my home page,
the counter and something else.
But for now, I will just keep it.
I'm just deleting the comments.
Okay, just to simplify a little bit what
we have on the screen, just a little bit.
So within here,
within this class main.dart,
I can actually create more classes,
more content.
Dart does not require one file,
one class, or one class,
one file, so you can actually put
more than one class in one file.
As I mentioned before,
Dart requires a main function.
So you're going to find within
main.dart a main function,
it says void main, and
in this case is running MyApp,
and it's creating an object of MyApp,
and it's treating that
object as a constant.
So actually,
you cannot change that object later.
MyApp, it's actually a class
that you have on the same file.
So in the same file,
you have that MyApp class.
So let's try to understand what
these classes actually are.
Flutter is heavily based, but really
heavily based on the concept of a widget.
What's a widget?
Something that decides how to render
content on the screen, that's a widget.
At least the basic initial
definition of a widget.
A widget,
it's a class that extends from widget.
But the widget class is abstract, so
we cannot actually extend
from the widget class.
We need to create a class,
I'm going to do this manually only once,
just to show you a quick idea.
So if I have a HelloWord widget, I need
to extend from one of the subclasses
of widget, the simplest one
is called statelesswidget.
We will understand why it's
called a stateless in a minute.
So the widget has only one required
property, the key property.
So in fact if we look at the error,
it's actually saying that
we are not actually implementing all the
methods and all the things that we need.
We need two things,
we need the key property,
the keys being used by the framework for
the tree because it will create
a tree of widgets in memory and
each one will have its own key,
its kind of the ID.
But it's internal, so we are not
going to set the value of those keys.
The framework will do that for us,
but we need to have the space,
the placeholder for that key, okay?
So that's why you will see that all
the classes will have something like
this here, they are.
What is this?
This is the constructor so let me
change the name of this constructor.
It receives a key, and
it's passing that key to the the super
class because it's mandatory, okay?
So that's completely mandatory.
So typically you will need a constructor
in your widget class that receives
a key and it passes that key to
the super class, that's mandatory.
And then you need also a build function.
Look at this, I've just typed build, and
if I select the first option,
it will populate this for me.
There is actually a function or a method
of my class with the name build, that they
receive something known as a BuildContext,
but we don't know what that is yet.
And it has this annotation of override,
that if you know Java
probably you're used to that.
It's just an annotation saying that
this is not just any function or
any method, it's actually
overriding the superclass method.
And it need to return a widget,
this is a return type.
So actually,
we need to return a widget, so
the build method typically
returns a widget.
For example, the simplest widget
that we can use it's called Text,
receives a text, and it renders that text
on the screen, remember the semicolon.
You will start seeing
a lot of warning errors.
For example, here it says,
what is my error in VS Code?
First when you hover this message,
you see the help of the text declaration,
but if you scroll down
you will see the problem.
The problem says, we prefer constants.
Let's do that again,
we prefer constants constructors.
So actually, what this says is that
because this text is not changing,
it's always a text with
a Hello World inside,
I must declare that with
a const prefix I mean,
it will work without the const,
but it's part of the linter.
It's a linter rule.
Okay, we can get rid of that
rule if you don't want to.
In fact, part of the options that I
have here to auto solve the problem
is to add the modifier, and also I can add
for the whole file a reference saying,
I don't want you to bother
me with this anymore, okay?
Be careful using this,
ignore linter rules.
Okay, so let's add the const,
so it's not complaining.
So this is actually a widget,
we have just created our first widget.
It's a class with a build method
returning another widget.
That's kind of the idea.
So we are going to make these
kinds of widgets a lot.
So that's why the tools, both
Visual Studio Code and Android Studio,
they include a shortcut to create
that class, it's st from a stateless.
So if you type stless and
then press Enter or Tab,
depends on the IDE,
both in Android Studio and Visual Studio,
it will let you create this class, and
then you type the name of the class.
And actually you're getting
exactly the same thing.
The only difference without the text,
it includes another widget by default,
it's called Container.
A Container is an empty widget
that contains other widgets.
It's like a div in HTML, okay?
So roughly we're going to create widget
stless, and it creates a widget.
That's kind of what we're
going to do all the time.
We're going to understand why it's
called stateless, in a minute, okay?
But, for what we have so far,
what if we wanna render that HelloWord?
Instead of rendering here,
MyApp, I can just say,
I can replace, when I'm running instead
of MyApp, I can run a HelloWord.
So I'm asking the system to run HelloWord.
So now I can run this again on
the emulator or on Chrome, it's up to you.
So let's say Chrome, for
example, run and debug.
Let's wait for it.
And look at this,
we have an error, so ooh.
So we have errors, it's asking for
No Directionality widget found.
So this is our first error in Flutter.
This is how we are going to see them.
In this case, the problem is
that the text widget is trying
to define its position and
its size based on a container,
and we don't have a container,
so this is too much.
Okay, we can start adding
those containers, but
maybe something that I can do is go
back to render in MyApp, like so.
And then MyApp has its own build method,
and
it has some containers such as
a MaterialApp container that we don't
know what that is MaterialApp, but
it has to do with material design.
And in one place, it says home.
That is what's the home of MyApp.
And it's pointing to another widget
call MyHomePage, that's actually here.
Well, if you want,
you can replace this with my HelloWold or
if you want, you can get into MyHomePage.
MyHomePage has also a lot of code that
actually we are not going to use.
So we need to clean this a little bit,
okay?
So I'm going to delete the counter and
also this increment counter,
this is a default code that we have.
And at one point there is a body,
an you see that body?
Well, instead of what we have in body,
I'm going to delete this,
I'm going to put my HelloWord here.
This FloatingActionButton is actually
the plus little sign button that was
available, I also don't need it.
So now it's actually much
simpler if I save this.
You remember we have halt restart,
so every time I save,
I can actually see this in action
without actually rebuild it, and
I have my really small HelloWord there.
Okay, so at the end what I have
right now is I have a tree of,
we can actually understand
what's going on here.
If we design the widget tree, here,
we have an app, it's called MyApp.
By the way, what's an app?
A widget, it's not actually,
an especial concept.
It's just a widget.
MyApp has inside another
one called HomePage,
that is actually the one that is here,
is MyHomePage, actually.
You can rename this widget.
And MyHomePage is actually rendering
my own widget, that is, a HelloWord.
And HelloWord inside has a text.
Actually, it's a little bit more
complicated than this, a tree, but
I think that we can understand
what's going on at least, okay?
So because we have hot reload,
maybe it's a good idea to
keep Chrome at one side, so
let me try to rearrange the windows
here a little bit, like so.
And then I have this little
Chrome that I will put here.
Because Chrome has a minimum size,
what I can do is
open the data inspector and
enable device mode.
This is web based.
I can actually make a really
narrow window with this, like so.
And then I can put that here somewhere.
So then I can play with Flutter on one
side and keep it there on the other side.
Also if you're using an emulator like
the Android emulator or the iOS emulator,
you can also keep that emulator
on top of Visual Studio.
If you have multiple monitors it's
probably a better idea, okay,
but I don't have it right now
in my setup so I'm doing this.
So actually,
if I'm changing the text and I'm saving,
Ctrl+S or Cmd+S on the Mac, I have
an automatic reload in my Chrome, okay?
So you can see this is really fast.
So you are developing your app, you'll see
the results on the screen immediately.
Okay, and if you're using a real phone and
real device for your previews,
it will work with the same speed,
actually, really, really fast.